The acolytes of several monasteries have been studying possible origins of this attack for weeks.  One of the most ancient and forbidden tomes contained in the great libraries talks about the origin of the purple dragon guard.  It appears that in ancient times, long before spellscourge, they were formidable gate keepers of Cormyr to other planes.  The most renowned branch of them fought back the great black dragon Thauglorimorgorus who was so ancient his scales turned purple.  They ended up chasing it into the Vast Swamp and founded an encampment called The Swamp Fort of Cormyr.

In this fort was a portal to the shadow plane to where they had chased Thauglor.  Those who entered never returned.  It appeared Thauglor had never been pushed back but all along was luring the militia to slaughter.  In another expedition through the portal, desperate times forced a cleric to ask a miracle of Selûne.  Our lady of silver had always been at odds with her twin, Shar, the mistress of night goddess of the plane of shadow.  The call was answered and a counterpart of this fort sprang into being with a pillar of light which extinguished the magical darkness for miles all around.  Thauglor was repelled by this brilliant light.  This lead to many victories in this plane.  The guard resided here with the cleric at its head named The Lord of Light.  She thus forward sat on the crystal throne and lead the guardians of this shining citadel known to all as The Ever Shining Army.

This appears to be solely a legend since the only known encampment in the Vast Swamp is known as the Lost Refuge and is rumored to house those of Church of Shar, disciples of the shadow weave.  They are nothing like those known in that legend.  It is however known that there is a fortress on the other side ruled by the Dusk Lord known as the Shadow Citadel which is situated on the edge of the Shadow Swamp.  The mountains there are treacherous and the toxic rivers which run through the valleys sometimes lead historians to call it The Vale of Shadows.

One cleric has spent time divining a spell which determined that those pages of numbers previously found are trajectories of the format <x position, y position, speed, angle above the horizontal, direction from the firing position>.  It appears to be that there is a spell being cast using the shadow weave and the coordinates seem to indicate that the spells location is in the kingdom of Cormyr.
